---
title:	TibCERT Bulletin Issue 6
description: 'The Tibetan Computer Emergency Readiness Team (TibCERT) is a formal, coalition-based structure for reducing and mitigating online threats in the Tibetan community, expanding Tibetans’ technical research'

pubDate: 2024.01.23
heroImage: '/assets/sub-page.jpg'
category: 'Bulletin'
tags: ['Bulettin']
boTranslation: 'tibetan-slug'
draft: False
---


# TibCERT Bulletin Issue 6



## 1.1 About TibCERT 

The Tibetan Computer Emergency Readiness Team (TibCERT) is a formal, coalition-based structure for reducing and mitigating online threats in the Tibetan community, expanding Tibetans’ technical research capacity on threats in the diaspora, surveillance, and censorship inside Tibet, and ultimately ensuring greater online freedom and security for Tibetan society as a whole.

## 1.2 Purpose 

The purpose of this TibCERT quarterly bulletin is to share updates about TibCERT and offer advice on digital threats observed in the community. As we enter the new year, it’s important to keep ourselves abreast of digital security “best practices,” ensuring that we can all build the capacity to protect against digital threats and keep ourselves and our communities safer online.  

## 1.3 TibCERT Updates

The year 2020 will be marked in history as one of the hardest years ever seen, with countries locking down and often empty streets. For many, though, it has also brought us closer to our family and loved ones. However, with the new normal still continuing, unprecedented cybersecurity threats are emerging from around the globe. We have never relied on technology and the Internet more than now, whether staying connected with each other or for our work. However, with this greater reliance on technology also comes more risk of cyberattack and the spread of misinformation and disinformation. Therefore, more vigilance than ever before is required. 

## 1.4 Summary

This issue of the bulletin features:

Tibetans in the diaspora have been under the spotlight of Chinese socially engineered cyberattacks. To help mitigate these threats, TibCERT has successfully set up its first community-based Response Hub in Dharamsala. This hub will operate through the fundamentals of Learn, Share, Network, and Support. Through the establishment of multiple community-based Response hubs, TibCERT will be expanded through this network to support the community globally. These hubs will also be able to identify the issues that our community is facing, finding solutions, and supporting our networks. 
Targeted Attacks on the Tibetan community:
This year’s Geneva Forum organized by the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) was held virtually on Facebook. While there were only a total of around 100 people watching live at any given time, there were more than 50,000 comments. This was due to many fake accounts being used to disrupt the forum by spreading disinformation. It looks like all the fake accounts were run by a group of people, making it an organized campaign. According to a Tibet Policy Institute researcher, the syntax used in the Tibetan language comments was the same as one used by Tibetans living inside Tibet and clearly a campaign run by the 50 Cent Army.   
We have also noticed ransomware attacks in our community in which the attacker encrypts the server, making it impossible to access the website unless a ransom is paid. In one instance, the website of an institute was compromised. Another case was found in Mundgod where a drive folder of a Tibetan monk’s computer was encrypted.
For more than 10 years, our community has been targeted with cyberattacks. While in recent years, the numbers have dropped, in the last three months, we have noticed a spike in attacks. For example, individuals and organizations have received spoofing emails seemingly from the Office of His Holiness the Dalai Lama. All the emails contain a Google Drive link and a key which is the password for the Zip file. However, if the file is downloaded and unzipped, it activates the MESSAGEMANIFOLD malware. 
Predictions for 2021:
In the age of information technology, a click of a button can cause a huge impact. With the ongoing pandemic and multiple elections in the Tibetan community, it’s likely we will see more disinformation and misinformation being spread in the coming months. As we have already seen, such fakes news can spread far and wide in our community when people share information without verifying its accuracy.
We might also see more fake accounts and online harassment in 2021. Since a user can submit any information when creating a social media account, fake accounts give people a sense of anonymity. While platforms such as Facebook and Twitter block accounts that are fake and that narrate hate speech, they can’t prevent and mitigate all the fake posts and content in circulation. Therefore, it’s up to every individual to break the chain by verifying information before sharing.
Ever since the Indian government started banning Chinese apps, we have seen a rise in the number of cases of targeted attacks in our community. Before the bans, popular apps like WeChat and TikTok created risk for Tibetan users due to their easy exploitation by the Chinese government. However, since the ban, the number of Tibetans using Chinese apps has dropped exponentially. Given the reduction in easy access through the usage of these apps, we believe we might see even more targeted attacks via other means in the coming months.
Digital Security Updates:
Since the outbreak of COVID-19, we have seen a huge shift in everyone’s life, especially people who have to rely on technology and the Internet to either stay connected or for work. Many governments around the world have used this opportunity to collect more data, expanding their surveillance and monitoring of citizens in the name of helping to “mitigate COVID-19.”
Firmware is software that is embedded in every device that is connected to the Internet. Unsecure firmware can be used to track you, steal your information, and control your system remotely. Given the many vulnerabilities that can be exploited, using devices such as Huawei and Oppo can bring a lot of cyberthreats.
Cloud services continue to be popular and are widely used. However, new reports indicate that attackers can use vulnerabilities found in Cloud services like Google Drive in order to bypass security features to steal credentials of your Office 365, American Express.
Apple notarization is a process of verifying an app for any security flaws and vulnerabilities before publishing it in the App Store. However, reports from a Mac security researcher show otherwise, detailing malware found in Apple devices that disguises itself as a Flash Installer. 
Tibet, located in the mountains of the Himalayas, has an ideal environment for servers to function properly. As a result, the Chinese government has established a data center that will fulfill the needs of Southeast Asian countries. 
### 2. First Community-based TibCERT Response Hub 

For more than a decade, the digital security team at Tibet Action Institute has focused on positively impacting the overall digital hygiene within the Tibetan community. With technology rapidly advancing, we have felt the need to use our resources to address tech support issues faced by different Tibetan organizations and institutions, as well as to create an updated awareness regarding the importance of digital security knowledge. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) continues to be an undisputed adversary in our decades-long struggle, using various methods to bring an unprecedented number of cyber threats to our community in the diaspora. These cyber threats include constant phishing emails, socially engineered malware, and spyware attacks on various individuals and organizations that are intended to steal and misuse important data and strategies that can harm our Tibetan cause. 

In consideration of such increasing cyber threats in our community, in 2016 Tibet Action Institute implemented a fellowship program. Through this program, individuals from Tibet Action began  helping a few specific organizations with technical assistance, as well as assisting them in growing and maintaining critical digital security practices. With time, we saw the need to expand our services and include as many organizations and institutions as possible in order to reach a wide spectrum of our community. This is when the TibCERT project was launched. 

Under the TibCERT project, we work with various organizations in the Tibetan community through a membership program, as well as collaborate with global technology researchers whenever possible. Our program provides technical support to its members, as well as bringing general awareness of the importance of digital security knowledge in the Tibetan community. The more collaboration we have with other organizations and individuals, the more we can learn about technical challenges faced by them due to the ever-increasing, targeted cyber threats from the Chinese regime. To help mitigate such threats, we provide digital security awareness to TibCERT members through basic digital security trainings, as well as the creation and implementation of digital security policies with the respective organizations. We also provide digital security incident response in order to mitigate phishing emails, socially engineered malware, and spyware attacks on the affected organizations. Much of our direct support and training work is enacted by four Digital Security Ambassadors (DSAs) deployed in major Tibetan settlements in India. TibCERT has also launched a help desk at support@tibcert.org where you can send digital security questions. Your email will generate a ticket and we try to respond to all queries within 48 hours. 

In the TibCERT membership program, we currently have more than 40 participating organizations and institutions in India and have created a very successful support network for these entities. However, we have also seen the need to initiate a new program so as to reach a larger and more diverse network of Tibetans who are not members of TibCERT, allowing for wider support, threat management, and exchange of ideas and opinions on technical and digital security issues faced by these broader networks.  To tackle this challenge, we have initiated a new program to establish volunteer-based, locally run Response Hubs in regions of India with large Tibetan populations. As of November 2020, we have successfully set up the first Response Hub in Dharamshala with 11 volunteers. In addition, in the coming months, we plan to establish two more hubs in Bylakuppe and Mundgod. We believe that this program will be very beneficial in helping to  elevate the digital security knowledge and technical excellence of our community and, in particular at this time, focus on a common goal of creating awareness of misinformation and disinformation being spread through social media. In the future, we hope to extend our support capacity to other Tibetan communities outside of India, if possible.

The Response Hub program is based on four fundamentals:

Learn:
Since Response Hub members come from different backgrounds, there is a great opportunity to learn from each other. While some members may be good at technical aspects or addressing social issues linked with cyber/online threats, others may bring strong skills in writing, influencing people, or graphic design. The Response Hub structure and environment provide ample opportunity for volunteers to skillshare and grow their abilities. 

Share: 
The TibCERT Response Hubs prioritize a relaxed, connected, safe environment so that members can feel comfortable to share any issues they are facing and feel free to express their genuine opinions. By creating such a space, team members can feel free to share what’s on their minds without hesitation, nervousness, or fear of being wrong.

Network:
One of the primary reasons for setting up the Response Hub program is to spread awareness, knowledge, and support on digital security issues for the maximum number of people in our community. Through the Response Hubs, the network of people we can reach is much larger and diversified than what can be done by TibCERT alone.

Support:
The end goal of the Response Hub program is to provide technical support and digital security knowledge to all of the individuals and organizations reached through the TibCERT network. In order to do so, the practical solutions discussed and agreed upon by our Response Hub team members are systematically implemented to help provide the most comprehensive support possible. 

Through the community-based Response Hub program, hub members gather together for discussions, problem-solving, and to determine how we can practically implement the solutions we discover. These discussion sessions or “meet-ups” occur once a month. Since the hub volunteer members come from different professional backgrounds, the diversity of views and opinions shared is a key factor in bringing creative and wide-reaching solutions to the broad range of technology and cyber issues faced by the Tibetan community today. We have also set up a secure online platform where our Response Hub members and anyone in the community who is interested can join and communicate with each other, share updates, and other relevant information regarding technology and digital security. With the unprecedented level of socially engineered malware attacks, phishing emails, censorship, and surveillance by the Chinese government, it is crucial that everyone in our community has at least a basic understanding of technology and the importance of digital security that will ultimately help the effectiveness and longevity of the Tibetan freedom movement.

### 3. Targeted Attacks in Our Community 

 - 3.1 Fake Accounts and Online Cyber Harassment

For many individuals, organizations, or corporations, social media accounts have become essential for staying connected, whether through Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram, Twitter, or accounts on any other social media platform. However, social media can be a mixed blessing. While people’s shared posts, videos, pictures, etc. make the experience more interesting and help us connect with each other even when we are thousands of miles away, the ease in creating accounts has resulted in an exponentially increasing number of new social media accounts daily. With this has come a surge of fake accounts which, in most cases, are made with the intent of harming an individual or a group of people. The user can easily hide their true identity while having real-time and often serious effects on their victims. Unfortunately, some bad actors are always there to create discomfort and problems in the Tibetan community by creating fake profiles, spreading misinformation/disinformation harmful to the community in general, as well as targeting specific victims. This can include death threats, hate comments, blackmailing, repeatedly spamming into someone’s account, impersonating high profile individuals, and spreading malicious content, etc.  

Since 2018, the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) has organized an annual, in-person forum in Geneva. It has been an influential international platform where human rights advocates, activists, diplomats, academics, and politicians deliberate on and report human rights violations by the CCP. But given the ongoing pandemic, the 2020 Geneva Forum was held virtually on Facebook. The central theme this year was “The Global Impact of China’s Policy on Freedom of Religion.” The sessions were on how intolerance of religious practices in areas under China’s rule has led to the persecution of Tibetan Buddhists, Uyghur Muslims, Christians, and Falun Gong practitioners. During the live Facebook sessions, there were more than 50,000 hate comments sent during the five-day meeting from November 9th to 13th 2020. Throughout the discussions, people wrote highly offensive comments about the forum, its participants, and the human rights panelists that were presenting. Hate speech usually falls under the category of disinformation and misinformation because those spreading it are giving incorrect ideas and information about their targets to newcomers or new audiences, in this example those watching the live session. If we dive deeper into this particular forum in Geneva, for each session there were around 100 people watching live while more than 3,000 comments were left in the comments section each day (50,000 in total). This raises the question of whether or not these comments were genuine or from some group of people trying to disrupt the forum? Most of the profiles of the commentators seemed to be fake since when you check their profile, there are no friends or photos posted by the account holder besides the profile picture. And while the comments originated from different accounts, some of the comments were very similar to each other and, at times, exactly the same, indicating a coordinated campaign run by a group of people. “Studying the usage of Tibetan language in the comments, it could be assumed that the troll army also employs Tibetans from Tibet or Chinese netizens well versed in the Tibetan language,” said Tenzin Dalha of Tibetan Policy Institute on Phayul.

